docs: Add LSP9Vault and LSP10ReceivedVaults Standards (#64)
lukso-network/LIPs: LSPs/LSP-10-ReceivedVaults.md

---
lip: 10
title: ReceivedVaults
author: 
discussions-to: https://discord.gg/E2rJPP4
status: Draft
type: LSP
created: 2021-12-1
requires: LSP2
---

## Simple Summary
This standard describes a set of [ERC725Y](https://github.com/ethereum/EIPs/blob/master/EIPS/eip-725.md) key values to store addresses of received vaults in a [ERC725Y](https://github.com/ethereum/EIPs/blob/master/EIPS/eip-725.md) smart contract.

## Abstract

> This key value standard describes keys to be added to an [ERC725Y](https://github.com/ethereum/EIPs/blob/master/EIPS/eip-725.md) smart contract, that reference received vaults smart contracts. Two keys are proposed: `LSP10ReceivedVaults[]` to hold an array of addresses and `LSP10ReceivedVaultsMap` to hold a mapping of the index in the former array and an standards interface ID to be able to quickly tell different vaults standards apart without querying each other vaults smart contract directly. The key `LSP10ReceivedVaultsMap` also helps to prevent adding duplications to the array, when automatically added via smart contract (e.g. a [LSP1-UniversalReceiverDelegate](https://github.com/lukso-network/LIPs/blob/master/LSPs/LSP-1-UniversalReceiver.md)).

Reviewer: I would suggest not starting both **Simple Summary** and **Abstract** section with the same sentence: (_"This key-value standard"_ defines).

Here is my suggestion on how to re-write this paragraph:

> The following two keys (including their ERC725Y JSON schema) are proposed to represent vaults owned by a smart contract:
> - `LSP10ReceivedVaults[]` to hold an array of vault addresses
> - `LSP10ReceivedVaultsMap` to hold a mapping of the index in the former array and the interface ID of the standard used by the vault. This enables to quickly differentiate vaults standards apart without the need to query each vault smart contract separately.
> 
> The key `LSP10ReceivedVaultsMap` also helps to prevent adding duplications to the array, when automatically added via smart contract (e.g. a [LSP1-UniversalReceiverDelegate](https://github.com/lukso-network/LIPs/blob/master/LSPs/LSP-1-UniversalReceiver.md)).

## Motivation
To be able to display received vaults in a profile we need to keep track of all received vaults contract addresses. This is important for [LSP3 UniversalProfile](https://github.com/lukso-network/LIPs/blob/master/LSPs/LSP-3-UniversalProfile.md), but also Assets smart contracts via [LSP5-ReceivedAssets](https://github.com/lukso-network/LIPs/blob/master/LSPs/LSP-5-ReceivedAssets.md) Standard.

## Specification

> Every contract that supports to the ERC725Account SHOULD have the following keys:

Reviewer: I think this sentence is what was in LSP0, so should be either removed or re-phrased.

### ERC725Y Keys

#### LSP10Vaults[]

References issued smart contract vaults.

```json
{
    "name": "LSP10Vaults[]",
    "key": "0x55482936e01da86729a45d2b87a6b1d3bc582bea0ec00e38bdb340e3af6f9f06",
    "keyType": "Array",
    "valueContent": "Address",
    "valueType": "address"
}
```

#### LSP10VaultsMap

References issued smart contract vaults.

The `valueContent` MUST be constructed as follows: `bytes8(indexNumber) + bytes4(standardInterfaceId)`. 

```json
{
    "name": "LSP10VaultsMap:<address>",
    "key": "0x192448c3c0f88c7f00000000<address>",
    "keyType": "Mapping",
    "valueContent": "Mixed",
    "valueType": "bytes"
}
```

## Rationale

## Implementation

> A implementation can be found in the [lukso-network/standards-scenarios](https://github.com/lukso-network/lsp-universalprofile-smart-contracts/tree/develop/contracts/LSP1UniversalReceiver/LSP1UniversalReceiverDelegateVault);

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An implementation can be found in the [lukso-network/standards-scenarios](https://github.com/lukso-network/lsp-universalprofile-smart-contracts/tree/develop/contracts/LSP1UniversalReceiver/LSP1UniversalReceiverDelegateVault);
```

> The below defines the JSON interface of the `LSP10ReceivedVaults`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Below is the ERC725Y JSON interface of the `LSP10ReceivedVaults`.
```
